
User Manual

PDF Encrypt

By: Heather Bock, Nicholas Land, and Mayce Varacalli











Platform Requirements: Windows 7 or greater, Mac OS

Description: This software is intended to encrypt a PDF file to secure its contents. The user will be required to enter a password to encrypt the PDF. The PDF will then be returned to the users file as an encrypted file. If the encrypted file is selected, the user will be prompted to enter password. If the password is incorrect or not entered, the PDF will not open. If the password is correctly entered by the user, the PDF will open for viewing. 

To decrypt the file the user will have to select the encrypted file from their files. They will then have to input the password associated with the encrypted file. If the password is correct, then a decrypted file will be returned to the user. If the password is incorrect then the file will not be decrypted. Note: The encrypted file must be a file that was encrypted by PDF Encrypt. The decryption will not work if the file has been encrypted by another piece of software.

Quick Start

Encrypt PDF:
1.	Launch PDF Encrypt
2.	Click browse to select PDF that you would like to encrypt (shown in Figure 1)

 
    Figure 1


     3. Select the file to be encrypted (shown in Figure 2)

 
Figure 2


4. Create and enter password which will be used to open the file once the file has been   encrypted (shown in Figure 3)
 
Figure 3


 5. Click submit and the a newly encrypted file will be created (shown in Figure 4)

 
Figure 4

6. When you open the new file, it will be encrypted and you will need to input the chosen password to access it. (Shown in Figure 5)



Figure 5


Decrypt a file:

1.	Launch PDF Encrypt
2.	Select encrypted file that needs to be decrypted (shown in Figure 6)
 
Figure 6

     3. Enter the password associated with the Encrypted file
     4. Click Submit
     5. A decrypted file will be returned (shown in Figure 7)
 
Figure 7

NOTE: If an incorrect password is entered a decrypted file will not be returned (shown in Figure 8)

 
Figure 8

